Psalms 67-72
This is a LibriVax recording. All LibriVax recordings are in the public domain. For more information or to volunteer, please visit LibriVax.org.
Recording by Simon Wainwright
The Book of Psalms, King James Version, Psalm 67
God, be merciful unto us and bless us, and cause his face to shine upon us, Selah.
That thy way may be known upon earth, thy saving health among all nations.
Let the people praise thee, O God, let all the people praise thee.
O, let the nations be glad and sing for joy, for thou shalt judge the people righteously, and govern the nations upon earth, Selah.
Then shall the earth yield her increase, and God, even our own God, shall bless us.
God shall bless us, and all the ends of the earth shall fear him.
Psalm 68
Let God arise, let his enemies be scattered, let them also that hate him flee before him.
As smoke is driven away, so drive them away, as wax melteth before the fire, so let the wicked perish at the presence of God.
But let the righteous be glad, let them rejoice before God, yea, let them exceedingly rejoice.
Sing unto God, sing praises to his name, extol him.
That writeth upon the heavens by his name, Jah, and rejoice before him.
A father of the fatherless, and a judge of the widows, is God in his holy habitation.
God setteth the solitary in families.
He bringeth out those which are bound with chains.
But the rebellious dwell in a dry land.
O God, when thou wentest forth before thy people, when thou didst march through the wilderness, say la.
The earth shook, the heavens also dropped at the presence of God.
Even Sinai itself was moved at the presence of God, the God of Israel.
Thou, O God, didst send a plentiful rain, whereby thou didst confirm thine inheritance.
When it was weary, thy congregation hath dwelt therein.
Thou, O God, hast prepared of thy goodness for the poor.
The Lord gave the word, great was the company of those that published it.
Kings of armies did flee apace, and she that tarried at home divided the spoil.
Though ye have leaned among the pots, yet shall ye be as the wings of a dove,
covered with silver, and her feathers with yellow gold.
When the Almighty scattered kings in it, it was white as snow in salmon.
The hill of God is as the hill of Bashan, and high hill as the hill of Bashan.
Why leap ye, ye high hills? This is the hill which God desireth to dwell in.
Yea, the Lord will dwell in it forever.
The chariots of God are twenty thousand, even thousands of angels.
The Lord is among them, as in Sinai, in the holy place.
Thou hast ascended on high. Thou hast led captivity captive.
Thou hast received gifts for men.
Yea, for the rebellious also, that the Lord God might dwell among them.
Blessed be the Lord, who daily loadeth us with benefits, even the God of our salvation, Selah.
He that is our God is the God of salvation, and unto God the Lord belong the issues from death.
But God shall wound the head of his enemies, and the hairy scalp of such in one as goeth on still in his trespasses.
The Lord said, I will bring again from Bashan, I will bring my people again,
from the depths of the sea, that thy foot may be dipped in the blood of thine enemies,
and the tongue of thy dogs in the same.
They have seen thy goings, O God, even the goings of my God, my King, in the sanctuary.
The singers went before, the players on instruments followed after.
Among them were the damsels playing with timbrels.
Bless ye God in the congregations, even the Lord from the fountain of Israel.
There is little Benjamin with their ruler, the princes of Judah and their council,
the princes of Zebulon, and the princes of Nepheli.
Thy God hath commanded thy strength.
Strengthen, O God, that which thou hast wrought for us.
Because of thy temple at Jerusalem shall kings bring presents unto thee.
Rebuke the company of spearmen, the multitude of the bulls, with the calves of the people,
till every one submit himself with pieces of silver.
Scatter thou the people that delight in war.
Princes shall come out of Egypt.
Ethiopia shall soon stretch out her hands unto God.
Sing unto God, ye kingdoms of the earth.
O sing praises unto the Lord, Selah.
To him that writeth upon the heavens of heavens, which were of old,
lo, he doth send out his voice, and that a mighty voice.
Ascribe ye strength unto God.
His excellency is over Israel, and his strength is in the clouds.
O God, thou art terrible out of thy holy places.
The God of Israel is he that giveth strength and power unto his people.
Blessed be God.
Psalm 69.
Save me, O God, for the waters are come in unto my soul.
I sink in deep mire where there is no standing.
I am come into deep waters where the floods overflow me.
I am weary of my crying.
My throat is dried.
Mine eyes fail while I wait for my God.
They that hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of mine head.
They that would destroy me, being mine enemies wrongfully, are mighty.
Then I restore that which I took not away.
O God, thou knowest my foolishness, and my sins are not hid from thee.
Let not them that wait on thee, O Lord God of hosts, be ashamed.
For my sake, let not those that seek thee be confounded for my sake, O God of Israel.
Because for thy sake I have borne reproach, shame hath covered my face.
I am become a stranger unto my brethren, and an alien unto my mother's children.
For the zeal of thine house hath eaten me up, and the reproaches of them that reproached thee are fallen upon me.
When I wept and chastened my soul with fasting, that was to my reproach.
I made sackcloth also my garment, and I became a proverb to them.
They that sit in the gates speak against me, and I was the song of the drunkards.
But as for me, my prayer is unto thee, O Lord, in an acceptable time, O God.
In the multitude of thy mercy hear me in the truth of thy salvation.
Deliver me out of the mire, and let me not sink.
Let me be delivered from them that hate me, and out of the deep waters.
Let not the water-flood overflow me, neither let the deep swallow me up.
And let not the pit shut her mouth upon me.
Hear me, O Lord, for thy loving-kindness is good.
Turn unto me according to the multitude of thy tender mercies, and hide not thy face from thy servant.
For I am in trouble. Hear me speedily.
Draw nigh unto my soul, and redeem it.
Deliver me because of mine enemies.
Thou hast known my reproach, and my shame, and my dishonor.
Mine adversaries are all before thee.
My reproach hath broken my heart, and I am full of heaviness.
And I looked for some to take pity, but there was none.
And for comforters, but I found none.
They gave me also gall for my meat, and in my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink.
Let their table become a snare before them, and that which should have been for their welfare, let it become a trap.
Let their eyes be darkened that they see not, and make their loins continually to shake.
Pour out thine indignation upon them, and let thy wrathful anger take hold of them.
Let their habitation be desolate, and let none dwell in their tents.
For they persecute him whom thou hast smitten, and they talk to the grief of those whom thou hast wounded.
Add iniquity unto their iniquity, and let them not come into thy righteousness.
Let them be blotted out of the book of the living, and not be written with the righteous.
But I am poor and sorrowful. Let thy salvation, O God, set me up on high.
I will praise the name of God with a song, and will magnify him with thanksgiving.
This also shall please the Lord better than an ox or bullock that hath horns and hoofs.
The humble shall see this and be glad, and your heart shall live that seek God.
For the Lord heareth the poor and despiseth not his prisoners.
Let the heaven and earth praise him, the seas and everything that moveth therein.
For God will save Zion, and will build the cities of Judah, that they may dwell there and have it in possession.
The seed also of his servants shall inherit it, and they that love his name shall dwell therein.
Make haste, O God, to deliver me. Make haste to help me, O Lord.
Let them be ashamed and confounded that seek after my soul.
Let them be turned backward and put to confusion that desire my hurt.
Let them be turned back for a reward of their shame that say, Aha! Aha!
Let all those that seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee.
And let such as love thy salvation say continually, Let God be magnified.
But I am poor and needy. Make haste unto me, O God.
Thou art my help and my deliverer, O Lord. Make no tarrying.
Psalm 71. In thee, O Lord, do I put my trust.
Let me never be put to confusion. Deliver me in thy righteousness and cause me to escape.
Incline thine ear unto me and save me.
Be thou my strong habitation, whereunto I may continually resort.
Thou hast given commandment to save me, for thou art my rock and my fortress.
Deliver me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked, out of the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man.
For thou art my hope, O Lord God. Thou art my trust from my youth.
By thee have I been holding up from the womb. Thou art he that took me out of my mother's bowels.
My praise shall be continually of thee. I am as a wonder unto many.
But thou art my strong refuge. Let my mouth be filled with thy praise and with thy honor all the day.
Cast me not off in the time of old age. Forsake me not when my strength faileth.
For mine enemies speak against me, and they that lay wait for my soul take counsel together, saying,
God hath forsaken him. Persecute and take him, for there is none to deliver him.
O God, be not far from me. O my God, make haste for my help.
Let them be confounded and consumed that are adversaries to my soul.
Let them be covered with reproach and dishonor that seek my hurt.
But I will hope continually and will yet praise thee more and more.
My mouth shall show forth thy righteousness and thy salvation all the day.
For I know not the numbers thereof. I will go in the strength of the Lord God.
I will make mention of thy righteousness, even of thine only.
O God, thou hast taught me from my youth, and hitherto have I declared thy wondrous works.
Now also, when I am old and gray-headed, O God, forsake me not until I have showed thy strength unto this generation
and thy power to everyone that is to come.
Thy righteousness also, O God, is very high. Who has done great things, O God, who is like unto thee?
Thou, which has showed me great and sore troubles, shalt quicken me again,
and shalt bring me up again from the depths of the earth.
Thou shalt increase my greatness and comfort me on every side.
I will also praise thee with the salt tree, even thy truth, O my God.
Unto thee will I sing with the heart, O thou holy one of Israel.
My lips shall greatly rejoice when I sing unto thee, and my soul which thou hast redeemed.
My tongue also shall talk of thy righteousness all the day long.
For they are confounded, for they are brought unto shame that seek my hurt.
Psalm 72.
Give the king thy judgments, O God, and thy righteousness unto the king's son.
He shall judge thy people with righteousness, and thy poor with judgment.
The mountains shall bring peace to the people, and the little hills by righteousness.
He shall judge the poor of the people.
He shall save the children of the needy, and shall break in pieces the oppressor.
They shall fear thee as long as the sun and moon endure.
For throughout all generations he shall come down like rain upon the mown grass as showers that water the earth.
In his days shall the righteous flourish, an abundance of peace so long as the moon endureth.
He shall have dominion also from sea to sea, and from the river unto the ends of the earth.
They that dwell in the wilderness shall bow before him, and his enemies shall lick the dust.
The kings of Tarshish and of the Isles shall bring presents.
The kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer gifts.
Yea, all kings shall fall down before him.
All nations shall serve him.
For he shall deliver the needy when he crieth, the poor also, and him who hath no helper.
He shall spare the poor and needy, and shall save the souls of the needy.
He shall redeem their soul from deceit and violence, and precious shall their blood be in his sight.
And he shall live, and to him shall be given of the gold of Sheba.
Prayer also shall be made for him, continually and daily shall he be praised.
There shall be a handful of corn in the earth, upon the top of the mountains.
The fruit thereof shall shake like Lebanon, and they of the city shall flourish like grass of the earth.
His name shall endure forever.
His name shall be continued as long as the sun and men shall be blessed in him.
All nations shall call him blessed.
Blessed be the Lord God, the God of Israel, who only doeth wondrous things.
And blessed be his glorious name forever.
And let the whole earth be filled with his glory.
Amen, and amen.
The prayers of David, the son of Jesse, are ended.
End of Psalms 67-72.
Recording by Simon Wainwright.